{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17300\viewh14060\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 INFO\
\ulnone \

\b0 Version 1.0 is a toolbox for interacting with freely-available ocean data. The old version of ocean_data_tools is located in ocean_data_tools/archive/.\
\
The ethos of ocean_data_tools is to create data objects (e.g. hycom, wod, woa, cruise, argo) and call functions on these objects. General functions are compatible with any of these objects.\
\
Email Laur Ferris ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:lnferris@vims.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul lnferris@vims.edu}}) if you find a bug and we\'92ll get it fixed. Version 1.0 was completely rewritten from Version 0.5, so this is definitely anticipated.\
\
See 
\b demos/demos.m
\b0  for examples.\
\

\b \
\ul DEPENDENCIES\

\b0 \ulnone \
nctoolbox ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/nctoolbox/nctoolbox"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://github.com/nctoolbox/nctoolbox}})\
\
\

\b \ul SPECIAL THANKS\
\

\b0 \ulnone The bathymetry functions in this toolbox call the 
\b utilities/extract1m_modified
\b0 , the original author of which is Catherine de Groot-Hedlin (SIO, chedlin@ucsd.edu).\
\
\

\b \ul GETTING DATA\
\ulnone \
Mercator\

\b0 \
Download Copernicus Marine data directly from FTP servers. Go to ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://marine.copernicus.eu/services-portfolio/access-to-products/"}}{\fldrslt \ul http://marine.copernicus.eu/services-portfolio/access-to-products/}}) and make a Copernicus account. Follow instructions for modifying ~/.netrc file in comments at top of script and run the script 
\b shell_scripts/download_mercator
\b0 .\
\

\b HYCOM\

\b0 \
Download subsetted HYCOM data directly using NCSS. Get the data url by visiting\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.hycom.org/dataserver/gofs-3pt1/analysis"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://www.hycom.org/dataserver/gofs-3pt1/analysis}}. For example, click Access Data Here -> GLBv0.08/expt_57.7 (Jun-01-2017 to Sep-30-2017)/ -> Hindcast Data: Jun-01-2017 to Sep-30-2017. Click on the\'a0NetcdfSubset\'a0link. Set constraints and copy the NCSS Request URL at the bottom of the page. Run 
\b shell_scripts/download_hycom_lite
\b0 .\
\
To download multiple months or years, run 
\b shell_scripts/download_hycom_bulk_daily 
\b0 (partition files by day)
\b  
\b0 or 
\b shell_scripts/download_hycom_bulk_monthly 
\b0 (partition files by month). Please use responsibly.\
\

\b Argo Floats\
\

\b0 Download argo ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.argo.ucsd.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul www.argo.ucsd.edu}})  data directly from GDAC FTP servers using either the Coriolis selection tool ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.argodatamgt.org/Access-to-data/Argo-data-selection"}}{\fldrslt \ul http://www.argodatamgt.org/Access-to-data/Argo-data-selection}}), or the US GDAC ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.usgodae.org/cgi-bin/argo_select.p"}}{\fldrslt \ul http://www.usgodae.org/cgi-bin/argo_select.p}}l).\
\
Alternatively run 
\b shell_scripts/download_argo
\b0  to download data via File Transfer Protocol.\
\

\b World Ocean Database (WOD)\

\b0 \
Search and select World Ocean Database data at ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nodc.noaa.gov/OC5/SELECT/dbsearch/dbsearch.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://www.nodc.noaa.gov/OC5/SELECT/dbsearch/dbsearch.html}}).\
\

\b World Ocean Atlas (WOA)\

\b0 \
Temperature, salinity, and oxygen are included. Access other variables at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nodc.noaa.gov/OC5/woa18/woa18data.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://www.nodc.noaa.gov/OC5/woa18/woa18data.html}}.\
\

\b GO-SHIP (WHP Cruise)\

\b0 \
Get data CTD data (for ctdo_dir) by choosing a GO-SHIP cruise ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cchdo.ucsd.edu/search?q=GO-SHIP"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://cchdo.ucsd.edu/search?q=GO-SHIP}}) and downloading the\'a0CTD\'a0data in\'a0whp_netcdf\'a0format. \
Visit ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://exchange-format.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://exchange-format.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#}}) for information about whp_netcdf parameters, specific to GO-SHIP.\
\
Get LADCP data (for uv_dir, wke_dir) at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://currents.soest.hawaii.edu/go-ship/ladcp/"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://currents.soest.hawaii.edu/go-ship/ladcp/}}.\
\

\b Bathymetry (Smith & Sandwell)\
\

\b0 To get bathymetry data (for bathymetry_dir), download Smith & Sandwell "Global Topography V18.1" ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://topex.ucsd.edu/marine_topo/"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://topex.ucsd.edu/marine_topo/}}).
\b \ul \
\
}